# GEMPAK Parameters

* [ADDSTN](parameters/addstn) is a logical variable which indicates whether stations which are in `STNFIL`, but not already included in the data file, should be added to the data file.

* [AFOSFL](parameters/afosfl) is the name of the AFOS graphics file to be displayed.

* [AIRM](parameters/airm) specifies end time, colors, mountain obscuration, and other AIRMET parameters.

* [ANLYSS](parameters/anlyss) is the average station spacing and the grid extend region.

* [ANOTLN](parameters/anotln) is the line attributes for annotation. See [LINE](parameters/line).

* [ANOTYP](parameters/anotyp) specifies the fill type for annotation. See [CTYPE](parameters/ctype).

* [AREA](parameters/area) is the data area.  Only data within the area specified will be processed.
                               
* [ASCT](parameters/asct) specifies end time, speed intervals, colors, and other attributes for ASCAT wind data.

* [ASDI](parameters/asdi) specifies attributes for the display of ASDI data.

* [ATCF](parameters/atcf) specifies attributes for the display of ATCF data.

* [AWPSFL](parameters/awpsfl) is the name of the AWIPS graphics file to be displayed.

* [BND](parameters/bnd) specifies the parameters needed for processing bounds areas.
 
* [BORDER](parameters/border)

* [BOUNDS](parameters/bounds) specifies the bound area(s) to consider when performing the graph-to-grid procedure. 

* [BOXLIN](parameters/boxlin) is the line attributes for a box drawn around a region. See [LINE](parameters/line).

* [BUFRFIL](parameters/bufrfil) defines BUFR output file names.

* [CALIMG](parameters/calimg) allows the user to select whether to use the calibration values supplied with an image, or raw pixel values.

* [CATMAP](parameters/catmap) is a string that contains `label=value` pairs.

* [CBTOP](parameters/cbtop) the user estimated cloud top height in meters.

* [CENTER](parameters/center) specifies center ID, subcenter ID, and generating process/model ID. 

* [CINT](parameters/cint) is the contour interval, min and max values, and number of digits.

* [CLEAR](parameters/clear) is a boolean to determine whether the graphics screen is cleared before plotting.

* [CLRBAR](parameters/clrbar) specifies the characteristics of a color bar associated with contour fill.

* [CNTR](parameters/cntr) specifies the plot attributes for Cell Centroid movement barbs.

* [CNTRFL](parameters/cntrfl) is the name of the file containing contour information.

* [CNTRPRM](parameters/cntrprm) is the [SFPARM](parameters/sfparm) to contour. 

* [COLORS](parameters/colors) specifies a list of color numbers.

* [COLUMN](parameters/column) specifies the number of columns for plotting ASCII text files specified by [TXTFIL](parameters/txtfil).

* [COMPRESS](parameters/compress) is a flag to determine whether the output will be written in compressed format.

* [CONTUR](parameters/contur) sets attributes for the contour algorithms.
        
* [CPYFIL](parameters/cpyfil) identifies grid navigation and analysis information to be stored in a grid file, as well as an optional subarea.

* [CSIG](parameters/csig) defined attributes for convective sigmet and convective outlook reports.

* [CTLFLG](parameters/ctlflg) is a boolean to indicate whether control characters are included in a raw surface data set.

* [CTYPE](parameters/ctype) specifies contouring attributes.
        
* [CURVE](parameters/curve) is a number corresponding to the method to be used to fit the curve (default is cubic spline).

* [CXSTNS](parameters/cxstns) defines the x-axis for a cross-section plot.

* [CYCLE](parameters/cycle) is the cycle name tag put into the VGF files.

* [DATOUT](parameters/datout) is the date and time which will be assigned in the output file.

* [DATTIM](parameters/dattim) is the date and time to be used by GEMPAK programs.

* [DELTAN](parameters/deltan) is the average station spacing in degrees of latitude.

* [DELTAX](parameters/deltax) is the spacing between grid points in the x direction on CED grids.

* [DELTAY](parameters/deltay) is the spacing between grid points in the y direction on CED grids.

* [DELZ](parameters/delz) is the user chosen average height difference between pressure levels to be used in the vertical interpolation. 

* [DESIRE](parameters/desire) is the value of the output vertical coordinate variable to which the input variables should be interpolated. 

* [DEVICE](parameters/device) specifies the graphics device.

* [DISCRETE](parameters/discrete) is a string that contains `value1-value2=value3` pairs. 

* [DITHER](parameters/dither) is used to specify the plotting behavior of the reflectivity intensities. 

* [DLINES](parameters/dlines) indicates if the direction of lines should be considered when performing a graph-to-grid contour. 

* [DTAAREA](parameters/dtaarea) defines the area over which station data will be input to the Barnes objective analysis.

* [ECHO](parameters/echo) specifies whether to plot the grid box intensities.

* [EDGEOPTS](parameters/edgeopts) specifies boundary conditions for an analysis. 

* [EDR](parameters/edr) defines valid times and corresponding colors for the data over the time limit specified.

* [ENCY](parameters/ency) is the initial time for forecast tracks, colors for model tracks, model names, plotting flags, forecast pressures, and markers at each forecast time. 

* [EXTEND](parameters/extend) is the number of grid points beyond [GRDAREA](parameters/grdarea) which defines the grid extend area in Barnes OA.

* [FAXFIL](parameters/faxfil) is the name of a 6-bit FAX product.

* [FFA](parameters/ffa) defines attributes for the rendering of flood watches.

* [FHOUR](parameters/fhour) is the forecast hour, typically in 1 or 2-digit format, e.g. 6, 12, 18, 00
                            	
* [FHR](parameters/fhr) is the forecast hour of freezing levels.

* [FILTER](parameters/filter) is a flag to control plot filtering to eliminate overlapping data. 

* [FILTYP](parameters/filtyp) is the filter type.

* [FINT](parameters/fint) is the contour fill interval, minimum and maximum values separated by slashes.

* [FLINE](parameters/fline) is the color and fill type to be used for contour fill.

* [FXYTBL](parameters/fxytbl) is the FXY table file name to use.

* [G2CONV](parameters/g2conv) defines a table to contain parameter information for conversions. 

* [G2DIAG](parameters/g2diag) allows for details Grib 2 message information to be printed for Grib 2 messages. 

* [G2DRT](parameters/g2drt) specifies the scaling and packing options when encoding the Grib 2 message.

* [G2IDS](parameters/g2ids) is a list of integers that are encoded into the Grib 2 Identification Section ( Section 1 ) that identifies the source and type of data packed in the Grib 2 message.

* [G2IS](parameters/g2is) is a list of integers that are encoded into the Grib 2 Indicator Section ( Section 0 ) that identify the discipline and version of the Grib 2 message.

* [G2PDT](parameters/g2pdt) can be used to specify any or all of the values in the Product Definition Template (PDT), describing the grid in the output Grib 2 message. 

* [G2TBLS](parameters/g2tbls) allows for specification of the Grib 2 decoding tables.

* [GAIRM](parameters/gairm) makes provision to plot the G-AIRMET snapshots in 3-hour time bins. 

* [GAMMA](parameters/gamma) is the convergence parameter, a multiplier for the weight and search radius for passes after the first pass of the Barnes analysis programs.

* [GAREA](parameters/garea) is the graphics area.

* [GBDIAG](parameters/gbdiag) allows for detailed GRIB message section information, byte-by-byte, to be printed out for selected GRIB messages. 

* [GBFILE](parameters/gbfile) is the name of the file which contains gridded data in GRIB messages.

* [GBTBLS](parameters/gbtbls) allows for specification of the GRIB decoding tables. 

* [GCENTER](parameters/gcenter) sets the center latitude-longitude on the ETA model domain.

* [GDATTIM](parameters/gdattim) is the date/time for the grid.

* [GDEFIL](parameters/gdefil) is the name of the grid edit file which will be used to update a grid file.

* [GDFILE](parameters/gdfile) is the name of the file which contains gridded data. 

* [GDNUM](parameters/gdnum) allows the user to select grids by number.

* [GDOUTF](parameters/gdoutf) is the output grid data file name.

* [GDOUTL](parameters/gdoutl) is the output vertical level in the target vertical coordinate. 

* [GDPFUN](parameters/gdpfun) specifies a grid diagnostic function which yields either a scalar or vector quantity. For more information, see the GPARM documentation.

* [GFUNC](parameters/gfunc) specifies a grid diagnostic function which yields a scalar quantity. For more information, see the [GPARM](parameters/gparm) documentation.

* [GGLIMS](parameters/gglims) is the parameter which controls the grid value limits and values. 

* [GGVGF](parameters/ggvgf) is the name of the VGF file.

* [GLEVEL](parameters/glevel) is the vertical level for the grid. 

* [GPACK](parameters/gpack) is the packing type and the number of bits (or data precision) to be used to pack the grid data.

* [GPARM](parameters/gparm) GFUNC and GVECT are the scalar and vector grid functions. 

* [GPOINT](parameters/gpoint) is the grid location to be used for the plot. 

* [GRDAREA](parameters/grdarea) specifies the area to be covered by the grid. 

* [GRDHDR](parameters/grdhdr) is a list of the valid grid header flags.

* [GRDLBL](parameters/grdlbl) is the color number to be used in plotting the grid index numbers. If = 0 or blank, grid index numbers are not plotted.

* [GRDNAM](parameters/grdnam) is the parameter name for the grid. In GDDIAG, this is the output name of the grid to be created. Time, level, and vertical coordinate for the grid may be overridden by in-line parameters: ^time @level %ivcord appended to the output name of the grid in any combination.

* [GRDTYP](parameters/grdtyp) is the type of a diagnostic grid. In GDDIAG, valid input can be `V` (vector) or `S` (scalar). Blank will default to `S`.

* [GSKIP](parameters/gskip) allows a [NDFDG2](programs/ndfdg2) user to specify a skip factor to reduce the resolution of the GEMPAK grid. 

* [GSPACE](parameters/gspace) sets the grid spacing of the ETA model domain.

* [GUESFUN](parameters/guesfun) specifies one or more grid diagnostic functions that compute the first guess grid for a Barnes objective analysis.

* [GUESS](parameters/guess) is the name of the file which contains the first guess gridded data for objective analysis programs. For more information, see GDFILE documentation.

* [GVCORD](parameters/gvcord) is the vertical coordinate of the grid to be selected. 

* [GVECT](parameters/gvect) specifies a grid diagnostic function which yields a vector quantity. For more information, see [GPARM](parameters/gparm).

* [GVOUTC](parameters/gvoutc) is the vertical coordinate of the output grid.

* [HILO](parameters/hilo) contains the information for plotting relative highs and lows.

* [HISTGRD](parameters/histgrd) toggles the writing of the graph-to-grid history grid to the GEMPAK grid file.

* [HLSYM](parameters/hlsym) defines the characteristics for the HILO symbols specified in HILO.

* [HRCN](parameters/hrcn) defines attributes for the rendering of tropical disturbance, hurricane, tropical storm, and tropical depression reports. 

* [IDNTYP](parameters/idntyp) sets character or numeric station identifiers to be used for input or output. 

* [IJSKIP](parameters/ijskip) is used to control subsetting of the internal grid by declaring bounding index values and numbers of points to skip in each index direction, I and J. 

* [IMBAR](parameters/imbar)

* [IMCBAR](parameters/imcbar) specifies the characteristics of a color bar for images.

* [IMGFIL](parameters/imgfil) is the name of an image file.

* [IMGTIM](parameters/imgtim) is the date and time to be used. may either be an 11-character string entered as YYMMDD/HHMM following the format of [DATTIM](), or the word "current" which refers to the current SYSTEM time.
* [IMJM](parameters/imjm) sets the number of grid points for workstation eta in the N-S and E-W direction where, = IM;JM IM and JM are the number of grid points over the computational domain domain where: IM is the number of grid points in the E-W (roughly) direction JM is the number of grid points in the N-S (roughly) direction IMPORTANT: The horizontal grid dimensions MUST be an ODD integer! BINARY DISTRIBUTION USERS: The IM and JM values must be set to the dimensions of your compiled distribution. LM should be 45. For a grid with 71 grid points in the E-W and 121 points in the N-S direction:
* [INDXFL](parameters/indxfl) is the name of the file which contains the GRIB message header information. If this parameter is left blank, the header information will be read from the GRIB data file specified in GBFILE.
* [INFO](parameters/info) is the information needed to define the object to be plotted. The location of the object is defined in LOCI. TEXT size/font/width/border/rotation/justify/hw/text_string POLYGON line type REGPOLY line type/radius/number points/rotation ARC line type/radius/number points/start ang/end ang CURVE line type/curve type LINE line type (overwrite line type set in ANOTYP) ARROW line typ/arrw typ/arrw siz/head siz/ head ang mult/rotation COLDFRONT number pips/pip size/line type/# smoothing passes WARMFRONT number pips/pip size/line type/# smoothing passes OCCLFRONT number pips/pip size/line type/# smoothing passes STATFRONT number pips/pip size/line type/# smoothing passes WEATHER symbol code/size CLOUD symbol code/size SKY symbol code/size TURB symbol code/size ICNG symbol code/size
* [INTERP](parameters/interp) is a logical variable which determines whether interpolation between sweeps will occur. If =NO, only values within the beam scan volume will be displayed. If =yes, data values between scan tilts will be interpolated using bilinear interpolation.
* [ISIG](parameters/isig) is the ending valid time for the international SIGMET, the colors for the thunderstorms, turbulence, hurricanes, tropical storms, tropical depressions, volcanic ash clouds, marked mountain waves, tropical cyclones, squall lines, CAT, icing, hail, duststorms, sandstorms, cumulonimbus, and low level wind shear, flags for plotting symbols or storm names, the start and end times, the message id, the direction and speed, and the flight level or the central pressure and maximum wind speed associated with a tropical cyclone on the map. End time|TS;TB;HU;TR;TD;VA;MW;TC;SQ;CT;IC;GR;DS;SS;CB;WS clrs|Symbol flg| Time flg|Id flg|Motion flg|Flight lvl flg SIGMETs that are valid at the ending time will be plotted on the map. The ending time is given as a GEMPAK date/time string. Any missing items from the string will be filled in by the system time. The ending time may also be LAST or ALL. LAST will use the system time and plot all current SIGMETs. ALL will plot all the SIGMETs in the data files for the last ten days, whether they are active, cancelled, or expired.
* [KEYCOL](parameters/keycol) indicates which contour lines to process. = 0 - process all lines = n - process all lines whose color is n
* [KEYLINE](parameters/keyline) indicates which contour lines to process based on VGTYPE and SUBTYP. = 0 - process all line types = m/n - process all lines with VGTYPE m and SUBTYP n where m is the VGF Object type and can be LINE or SPLN (special line type). n is the GEMPAK code number for a specific object type within VGTYPE. See $GEMTBL/pgen/setting.tbl for code numbers. For example: =SPLN/4 will process only pointed arrowed lines. =SPLN/3 will process only scalloped lines.
* [KXKY](parameters/kxky) specifies the size of a grid as two numbers separated by a semicolon: kx ; ky These numbers are KX and KY, which represent the number of grid points in the x- and y- directions. If the projection is CED, these numbers may be DELTAX and DELTAY, the grid spacing in degrees in the x and y directions. If the spacing is input, the first character in must be #. For example: = #2.5;2.0 will create a grid with 2.5 degree spacing in x (longitude) and 2.0 degree spacing in y (latitude).
* [LAT](parameters/lat) specifies the latitude grid lines to be drawn. It is set to 10 degrees.
* [LATLON](parameters/latlon) specifies the latitude and longitude grid lines to be drawn. The line color, line type, line width, label frequency and increment are separated by slashes: color/line_type/line_width/x-freq;y-freq/x-inc;y-inc/lt_label;ln_label/format The label frequency specification contains the latitude and longitude label frequencies separated by a semicolon. The increment specification contains the latitude and longitude increments in degrees separated by a semicolon. If the color is 0 or is blank, grid lines are not drawn. The latitude and longitude increments will default to 10 degrees. The label frequency defaults to 1. The latitude and longitude labels refer to the latitude at which to label the longitudes lines and the longitude at which to label the latitude lines. The defaults for the latitude and longitude value placements if either or
* [LEVELS](parameters/levels) specifies the vertical levels to be extracted from the data set. The coordinate system for the levels is specified in the variable VCOORD as PRES, HGHT or THTA. may be a list separated by semicolons. The following items may be included in the list: a single level; MAN for the mandatory levels below 100 mb; VAS for the standard VAS levels; a range of levels with an increment separated by - . The following items are also valid, provided they are not part of a list: ALL for all levels; a range of levels without an increment.
* [LINE](parameters/line) is the color, line type, line width, line label freqency, smoothing separated by slashes, and flag to suppress small contours. The individual values in each group are separated by semicolons: colr1;..;colrn/type1;..;typen/width1;..;widthn/labl1;..;labln/smth/fltr/scflg For example: = 1;2 / 7;8 / 4;5 / 2 / 2 / T assigns colors 1 and 2 to alternate lines, dashing patterns 7 and 8 to alternate lines, line widths 4 and 5 to alternate lines, and labels every other line. Smoothing level 2 is used on all lines. Contours with 7 points or less wil not be drawn. If any specification is missing, a default of 1 is used. Except for the smoothing, which defaults to 0, or no smoothing. If a color number of 0 is given, no plotting will be done. The suppress small contour flag will
* [LOCI](parameters/loci) is the point(s) needed to place the object to be plotted. TEXT x;y POLYGON x1;y1/x2;y2/x3;y3/.../xN;yN REGPOLY x;y ARC x;y CURVE x1;y1/x2;y2/x3;y3/.../xN;yN LINE x1;y1/x2;y2/x3;y3/.../xN;yN ARROW x;y COLDFRONT x1;y1/x2;y2/x3;y3/.../xN;yN WARMFRONT x1;y1/x2;y2/x3;y3/.../xN;yN OCCLFRONT x1;y1/x2;y2/x3;y3/.../xN;yN STATFRONT x1;y1/x2;y2/x3;y3/.../xN;yN WEATHER x;y CLOUD x;y SKY x;y TURB x;y ICNG x;y SPCL x;y MARKER x;y
* [LON](parameters/lon) specifies the longitude grid lines to be drawn. It is set to 10 degrees.
* [LSTALL](parameters/lstall) is a flag indicating whether the full contents of a file are to be listed. For example, in GDINFO, if =YES, the grid identifiers will be listed; if =NO, grid identifiers will not be listed.
* [LSTPRM](parameters/lstprm) specifies a field to list on the side of the display. Stations are added to the list if they are filtered from the map. The input for is: Filtered parameter | x;y | TEXT information The filtered parameter is the name of the data field to list with the station id. The filtered parameter must also appear in the list of parameters to be displayed on the map. X;Y is the location of the upper left corner of the list. TEXT information is the same as for the TEXT parameter, but only applies to the list of filtered data.
* [LTNG](parameters/ltng) is the ending valid time for lightning data, the time increments (in minutes going back from the ending time) and the corresponding colors for the lightning data, and the positive and negative markers to display. End time|time increments/colors|positive marker/negative marker The ending time is the latest time for which lightning data will be plotted. The ending time is given as a GEMPAK date/time string. Any missing items from the string will be filled in by the system time. The ending time may also be LAST. LAST will use the system time and plot all lightning data for the preceding times as defined by the time increments. ALL is not accepted as an ending time for lightning data. The time increments and colors may each be specified using either a list separated by semicolons or a range in the form first-last-increment. Time increments are given in minutes going back sequentially from the ending time. The number of time increments must be the same as the number of colors. If no time increment and color are given, a single
* [LUTFIL](parameters/lutfil) specifies a lookup table file name used to enhance the colors for satellite or radar images. Color enhancement allows certain features in a satellite or radar image to be highlighted. Keywords may be specified for with the following definitions: = DEFAULT (Use the color enhancement specified for this image type in the table IMGTYP.TBL) = (Same as DEFAULT) = GRAY (Image gray values, no enhancement) = GREY (Image gray values, no enhancement) = RADAR (Standard radar colors for reflectivity) = NONE (Use the current look up table with no changes)
* [LVLINCR](parameters/lvlincr) specifies the freezing level increment. Freezing level ranges are rounded to the nearest levels with the increment. For example, if is set to 500, top freezing level of 8200 foot will be rounded to 8500 foot. Bottom freezing level 4100 foot will be rounded to 4000 foot. The default value is 500.
* [MAP](parameters/map) is the map color, line type and line width separated by slashes: map color / line type / line width / filter flag If the color is 0, the map is not drawn. If the map color, line type, or line width is blank, a default of 1 is used. Additional help for colors is available in COLORS; help on line types can be found in LINE. The filter flag is used to reduce the number of points used to draw the map lines. Valid values for the filter flag are YES and NO. The default is NO. The attributes for multiple maps may be set by separating the settings for each map with a plus sign (+). If the number of attribute groups is less than the number of map files, the last group of settings is used for the remaining maps.
* [MAPFIL](parameters/mapfil) $ $ is the name(s) of the map file(s) to be used for maps drawn by GEMPAK programs. If no directory is specified, the GEMPLT map files in GEMMAPS will be used. Multiple maps may be drawn at one time by separating the names with a plus sign (+). The map files in GEMMAPS are named by concatenating the resolution, map boundaries, and area with the three-letter source file type. For example, the medium-resolution political world map from GSFC is called MEPOWO.GSF. RESOLUTION FEATURES AREA SOURCE ToP POlitical WOrld GSFc HIgh COastline NW quadrant NWS MEdium REgional NE quadrant CIA LOw CouNty SE quadrant USGeol survey
* [MARKER](parameters/marker) specifies the marker color, type, size, line width and hardware/software flag separated by slashes: marker color / marker type / size / width / hw flag If the marker color is 0, no markers will be drawn. If the marker color is not specified, a default of 1 will be used. The marker type specifies the shape of the marker to be drawn. If the type is unspecified or zero, the current marker type (usually 1) will be used. The software marker types are: 1 plus sign 12 asterisk 2 octagon 13 hourglass X 3 triangle 14 star 4 box 15 dot 5 small X 16 large X 6 diamond 17 filled octagon
* [MAXGRD](parameters/maxgrd) is the maximum number of grids that can be stored in the grid file being created.
* [MAXTOP](parameters/maxtop) specifies the color and filter attributes for cell top annotations (feet): color ; filter A color value of 0 is used to turn off cell top annotations. FILTER is a logical variable or real number which controls the filtering of data in order to eliminate plotting of overlapping data.
* [MESO](parameters/meso) specifies the plot symbol and filter attributes for mesocyclones: color / marker / size / width / hw ; filter A color value of 0 is used to turn off mesocyclone plotting. Marker attributes behave as MARKER for other plotting programs. FILTER is a logical variable or real number which controls the filtering of data in order to control plotting of overlapping data.
* [MIXRLN](parameters/mixrln) specifies the color, line type, line width, minimum, maximum, and increment for the background mixing ratio lines on thermodynamic diagrams: line color / line type / width / minimun / maximum / increment The values should be separated by slashes. If the color is 0, or is blank, no lines will be drawn.
* [MRGDAT](parameters/mrgdat) is a logical variable indicating whether sounding data is to be merged or unmerged. The type of unmerged data follows a slash: merge flag / unmerged data type The valid unmerged data types are: 1 = mandatory data below 100 mb ( TTAA, PPAA, TRPA, MXWA ) 2 = mandatory and significant level data below 100 mb ( TTAA, PPAA, TRPA, MXWA, TTBB, PPBB ) 3 = mandatory and significant level data below and above 100 mb ( TTAA, PPAA, TRPA, MXWA, TTBB, PPBB, TTCC, PPCC, TRPC, MXWC, TTDD, PPDD ) The default is 3. If the data is merged, the data type is ignored. When is used to create a sounding file, it indicates whether
* [MSCALE](parameters/mscale) specifies the characteristics of a scale legend associated with map projections. The attributes are separated by slashes: fgc;bgc;mask / units / latitude;hide / values / anchor / x;y / length;width / frequency | text_info | title fgc is the foreground color which is used to color the labels and the bounding box around the scale legend as well as fill every other box starting with the second box. bgc is the background color which is used to color every other box starting with the first. If the fgc is 0 or missing, no scale legend is drawn. If bgc is NOT specified it defaults to the default background color, 101. If ONLY the bgc is specified, the fgc defaults to 1. Finally, a third color may optionally be given to specify a 'mask color'. This color will be drawn 'underneath' the scale legend to enhance its visibility. If no mask color is given, no mask is drawn. Units is the the units for the distance values. Valid values are 'SM' (Statute Miles), 'NM' (Nautical Miles), and 'KM' (Kilometers). The
* [MXDPTH](parameters/mxdpth) is the user estimated mixed layer depth in meters. The default value is 0 m, this uses surface values as the average for the mixed layer.
* [NCON](parameters/ncon) is the ending valid time for the non-convective sigmet, the colors for the icing, turbulence, duststorm and sandstorm, and volcanic ash, and flags for plotting symbols, the end time, the message id, and the flight levels on the map. End time|IC;TB;DU;VA clrs|Symbol flg|Time flg|Id flg|Flight lvl flg| Id1 flg|Id2 flg| ... ... |Id10 flg| Non-convective sigmets that are valid at the ending time will be plotted on the map. The ending time is given as a GEMPAK date/time string. Any missing items from the string will be filled in by the system time. The ending time may also be LAST or ALL. LAST will use the system time and plot all current non-convective sigmets. ALL will plot all the non- convective sigmets in the data files for the last ten days, whether they are active, cancelled, updated or expired. The colors are separated by a semi-colon. If any color is set to 0, that type of symbol will not be plotted. If any color is missing, a
* [NDVAL](parameters/ndval) is the data value to be used where NIDS producte report "ND" (none detected). By default, tis is the RMISSD value of -9999. For certain products, the user may wish to change this for later computations..
* [NPASS](parameters/npass) controls the number of passes for the Barnes objective analysis. Valid values are in the range 1 - 5. Note that two passes are STRONGLY RECOMMENDED.
* [NTRACE](parameters/ntrace) is the number of traces to be drawn in SFGRAM. If is less than 5, the user input for TRACEx where x is greater than will be ignored. The default value for is 5.
* [OAATTR](parameters/oaattr) contains attributes to use for objective analysis in the graph to grid function.
* [OABND](parameters/oabnd) specifies the bounds file(s) to use for 'blocking'. Multiple bound areas may be specified via '+' sign between bound names. Default is NULL - no bounds specified.
* [OAGUESS](parameters/oaguess) contains the information to use as a first guess for objective analysis in the graph to grid function. The name of the grid file containing the guess field and the time to be used to extract the field must be entered using * as a separator: guess file * grid time
* [OLKDAY](parameters/olkday) is the day of the extended oulook. For example for day 3: =3
* [OSCT](parameters/osct) is the ending valid time for the OScat wind data, the speed intervals and colors, the wind barb size and width and plotting flags. Skip is a value that indicates how many rows and data points to skip when plotting. The flags include Rain, Rain Colors, and Rain Circles. Data type | End time | Speed intervals | colors1 | colors2 | Arrow/Barb shaft size;Arrow/Barb width;Arrow head size; Type of wind vector | Skip | Time stamp interval | Time stamp color | Line Width | Rain | Rain Colors | Rain Circles The data type is a selection to plot or _HI, or ambiguities OAMBG1_HI, OAMBG2_HI, OAMBG3_HI, or OAMBG4_HI. The end time is the latest time for which OScat data will be plotted. The end time is given as a GEMPAK date/time string. Any missing items from the string will be filled in by the system time. The end time may also be LAST. LAST will use the system time and plot all OScat data for the preceding 4 hours. ALL is not accepted as an end time for
* [OUTFIL](parameters/outfil) is the name of an output satellite image file.
* [OUTPUT](parameters/output) determines the output devices. The valid devices are the terminal (T), a file (F) or none (N). Specify the output devices desired by entering the appropriate letters with no separators. If output is sent to a file, the file name may be specified after a slash. If no file name is entered, the output will be written to "program.fil", where "program" is the name of the program being executed. If N appears anywhere in the output string other than in the file name, no output will be generated. Examples: = f / data.dat -- output will be written to data.dat
* [OVERWR](parameters/overwr) allows the user to specify whether existing GEMPAK grids in a file should be overwritten or left unchanged. The valid choices for the flags are "YES", or "NO". If is set to "YES", and the program tries to write out a grid that already exists in the output GEMPAK file, the grid will be replaced with the new one. Otherwise, the original grid remains the same and the new grid is not written out to the file. Note that the "YES" option does not overwrite the grid navigation in the header of the output GEMPAK file nullifying all the existing grids. Only grids with the same navigation that is specified in the output file header can be written. Examples: = yes -- existing grid is overwritten.
* [PANEL](parameters/panel) specifies the panel location, panel outline color, line type and width separated with slashes: panel location / outline color / line type / width / region The panel location determines the location of the view region on the graphics device. It may be specified using a number or abbreviation as follows: NUMBER ABBREVIATION DESCRIPTION 0 ALL Entire device 1 UL Upper left quadrant 2 UR Upper right quadrant 3 LL Lower left quadrant 4 LR Lower right quadrant 5 L Left half 6 R Right half 7 T Top half
* [PDSEXT](parameters/pdsext) is a logical flag which only becomes applicable when a PDS extension exists in the GRIB message. YES or NO If is YES, then a sequence of characters specifying the extension information will be appended onto the standard GEMPAK parameter name. If is NO, then the append will not be performed. For instance, if the parameter is HGHT and the PDS extension is an ensemble extension indicating that this particular height field is an ensemble mean average, then the PDS extension suffix will be "ENMA". The final GEMPAK parameter name will be "HGHTENMA" and must be referenced as such in any GEMPAK program.
* [PDSVAL](parameters/pdsval) provides a way to enter explicitly PDS numbers identifying a grid by parameter, level, vertical coordinate type, and time. None, some, or all of them may be entered. Default values are determined from the GEMPAK grid label information and the GEMPAK grid GRIB lookup tables. The input has the following form: parameter # %vertical coordinate type # @level # ^time or parm name %vertical coordinate name @level # ^time The parameter number or name, if given, must appear first. It is not preceded by any marking delimiter. The parameter number will be assigned to PDS byte 9. After the parameter number, the entries may be given in any order. The parameter may be entered
* [PIXRES](parameters/pixres) is the input for how many pixels and lines to include in the new image. If is 4, then every 4th pixel and line will be used in the new image.
* [PLUS](parameters/plus) specifies the size and width of a plus sign: plus sign size / width The plus sign size is a real number multiplier for the default size. If the size is zero or unspecified, the current size will be used.
* [PMAX](parameters/pmax) defines the maximum possible pressure from which data may be interpolated to the output vertical coordinate. originated as a way to exclude low-level PV when interpolating to the tropopause level from a THTA-coordinate input file. A good value of could be 650 or 700 (mb). When interpolating from pressure coordinates or any other coordinate system, make sure that does not conflict with the bounds of the search as specified by STARTL and STOPL.
* [POSN](parameters/posn) is the position number and the format of the text to be used to plot data in GDMAP. If the position number is 0, the data will be plotted centered at the station. The position numbers are: 7 1 3 2 0 4 5 6 8 The format to use for the plotted values is entered after the position number and a slash. WAFT Used to plot temperature values for the
* [PRBTYP](parameters/prbtyp) specifies the probability type: 1 = cumulative probability 2 = probability density The default is 1.
* [PRECSN](parameters/precsn) is the binary or decimal precision to be preserved in the packing of the gridded data. Binary precision is entered as a B/n, where B indicates binary precision and n is an integer indicating the nearest power of 2 to which to pack the data. Power of 10 scaling of the data is NOT done when binary precision is specified. The following table relates values of n to the precision retained. n Binary Precision Description -4 Data values are rounded to the nearest 1/16. -3 Data values are rounded to the nearest 1/8. -2 Data values are rounded to the nearest 1/4. -1 Data values are rounded to the nearest 1/2. 0 Data values are rounded to the nearest 1. 1 Data values are rounded to the nearest 2. 2 Data values are rounded to the nearest 4.
* [PROJ](parameters/proj) is the map projection, projection angles, and margins separated by slashes and an optional image drop flag separated from the rest by a bar: map proj / ang1;ang2;ang3 / l;b;r;t (margins) | image drop flag For all map projections, the lower left and upper right corners of the graphics area should be specified in GAREA. The following simple map projections may be specified: MER Mercator NPS North Polar Stereographic SPS South Polar Stereographic LCC Northern Hemisphere Lambert Conic Conformal SCC Southern Hemisphere Lambert Conic Conformal CED Cylindrical Equidistant MCD Modified Cylindrical Equidistant
* [PTYPE](parameters/ptype) is the type of y axis plot to be used, the height-to-width ratio of the plot, and the margins, separated by slashes. The valid inputs for type for the y axis are: LIN linear LOG logarithmic STUVE scaled by raising to KAPPA, 2/7, power KAP same as STUVE SKEWT logarithmic y-axis; skewed x-axis SKEW same as SKEWT If the height-to-width ratio is 0, the entire screen will be used. This is also the default when ratio is not specified. The margins are specified as: left;bottom;right;top. The values are multiples of the current character size. If the margin specification is missing or incomplete, a default appropriate to
* [QCNTL](parameters/qcntl) is the quality control threshold values. It is used only when the first-guess field exists. If the difference between the original data and the interpolated values from the first guess is greater than the threshold values, the data will be discarded. Only positive threshold values are used. The default value is 0.
* [QSCT](parameters/qsct) is the ending valid time for the QuikScat or ambiguity wind data, the speed intervals and colors, the wind barb size and width and plotting flags. Skip is a value that indicates how many rows and data points to skip when plotting. The flags include High Wind Speed, Low Wind Speed, Rain, Sensor Availability. Data type | End time | Speed intervals | colors1 | colors2 | Arrow/Barb shaft size;Arrow/Barb width;Arrow head size; Type of wind vector | Skip | Time stamp interval | Time stamp color | Line Width | High Spd | Low Spd | Rain | Availability | Rain Colors | Plot Circles The data type is a selection to plot , _HI, AMBG1, AMBG2, AMBG3, or AMBG4 data. The ending time is the latest time for which QuikScat data or QuikScat ambiguity data will be plotted. The ending time is given as a GEMPAK date/time string. Any missing items from the string will be filled in
* [RADDUR](parameters/raddur) is the length of time (in minutes) prior to RADTIM for which data will be used in composites.
* [RADFIL](parameters/radfil) is the name of a radar image file. For animation programs, a list of radar image files, separated by semicolons, may be entered. For long image names, part of the first name may be separated by backslashes ( \ ); the following values in the list will be substituted for the characters within the backslashes, i.e. $RADAR/REF_941017_12\00\;05;10;15 is interpreted as $RADAR/REF_941017_1200;$RADAR/REF_941017_1205;$RADAR/REF_941017_1210; $RADAR/REF_941017_1215
* [RADFRQ](parameters/radfrq) is the update frequency for RADAR composites. is a time, in seconds, for which the program will wait before creating the next composite.
* [RADINFO](parameters/radinfo) specifies the color for radar site operational status annotations. NA, data not available; OM, out for maintenance; NE, no echoes.
* [RADIUS](parameters/radius) is the search radius (in meters) for which data will be considered.
* [RADMODE](parameters/radmode) allows the user to select whether to include radar data from sites operating in (P) precipitation/storm mode, (C) clear air mode, and/or (M) maintainence mode. The default, if none are specified is data from all 3 modes (PCM). Multiple modes may be specified.
* [RADPARM](parameters/radparm) is the Radar parameter to be displayed. Valid values are dz (reflectivity), vr (radial velocity), sw (spectrum width).
* [RADTIM](parameters/radtim) is the date and time to be used for RADAR composites. may either be an 11-character string entered as YYMMDD/HHMM following the format of DATTIM, or the word "current" which refers to the current SYSTEM time.
* [RCMFIL](parameters/rcmfil) is the RCM data file. Bulletins with radar observation times in the RCM file will be plotted if the observation time is within the range specified by the starting and ending times. may be a file alias defining a file template.
* [REFVEC](parameters/refvec) specifies the size and location on the screen of the reference arrow using the following format: Magnitude; x; y; text size/font/width/HW; string Magnitude refers to the size of the reference wind arrow to be plotted. For example, using 10.0 results in a reference arrow of 10.0 units being plotted. If the magnitude specified is 0, no reference arrow is plotted. The default is 0. The user specifies the location of the reference arrow by entering values between 0.0 and 1.0 for x-location and y- location. These values are normalized to the display so, for example, the center of the display is 0.5;0.5. If no values are entered, the reference arrow is plotted in the lower left hand corner: 0.05;0.05.
* [REGION](parameters/region) specifies an areal location. In GPBOX, may be VIEW, PLOT or DEVICE where: VIEW corresponds to the view region (includes margins); PLOT corresponds to the plot region (excludes margins); DEVICE corresponds to the entire device space. In OABOX, the region must be GRID, DATA, or EXTEND where: GRID corresponds to the area over which the objective analysis is performed; DATA corresponds to the area from which data will be extracted for the objective analysis;
* [RESPOND](parameters/respond) $ $ is a logical variable indicating whether the user will respond interactively to GEMPAK programs. If set to NO, programs will not wait for input from the user.
* [ROTATE](parameters/rotate) is the angle of rotation for the coordinate axes. This is used to determine the wind component in a user definded plane. Default = 'blank' or 270 means no rotation.
* [RTRAJ](parameters/rtraj) is a logical variable which determines whether the trajectory will start or end at the specified GPOINT. Enter YES for the trajectory to end at GPOINT (reverse trajectory). Enter NO to begin at the specified GPOINT.
* [SATFIL](parameters/satfil) is the name of a satellite image file. For animation programs, a list of satellite image files, separated by semicolons, may be entered. For long image names, part of the first name may be separated by backslashes ( \ ); the following values in the list will be substituted for the characters within the backslashes, i.e. $GOES7/VIS_941017_\12\01;13;14 is interpreted as $GOES7/VIS_941017_1201;$GOES7/VIS_941017_1301;$GOES7/VIS_941017_1401
* [SCALE](parameters/scale) is the scaling factor for the data. All data will be multiplied by 10 ** . The user specifies the scaling factor for scalar grids and/or vector grids by entering: scalar / vector If is not specified, an appropriate scaling will be selected. In the grid programs, a data-dependent scaling will be selected. In the surface, sounding and the grid to station interpolation programs, a default of 0 will be used. If no vector scale is specified the scalar scaling factor will be used in its place. If the absolute value of is greater than 5 in a surface or sounding program, a value of 0 will be used. If the absolute value is greater than 20, a default will be computed in a grid program. In the grid to station interpolation program, a default of 0 will be used.
* [SEARCH](parameters/search) controls the search radius in an objective analysis program. The radius is the maximum distance that a station may be from a grid point to be used in the analysis for that point. The search radius is set so that stations whose weighting factor is less than EXP (-) are not used. must have a value in the range 1 - 50. If the value is outside this range, a default value of 20 is used. If is given a very small value, many grid points will not have three stations within the search area, and consequently will be set to the missing data value. may also be used to set a flag to allow extrapolation of data values to grid points on the periphery of the data area. To do this, follow the value of with /EX; for example, = 20/EX will result in data extrapolation.
* [SFEFIL](parameters/sfefil) is the name of the surface edit file to be used to update a surface file. is a text file which may be created using the program SFLIST with F as an output device. A text editor may be used to create or change the surface edit file. The parameters to be edited must be specified at the beginning of the surface edit file. For example: PARM = TMPF;DWPF Parameters that have character values, such as WTHR, cannot be edited. Instead, the numeric value must be used, e.g., WSYM in the case of WTHR. All the parameters which are to be edited must already exist in the surface data file, since no parameter transformations will be done. Station information, such as latitude, longitude and elevation, cannot be changed with . Use GEMPAK program, SFSTNS, to update
* [SFFILE](parameters/sffile) is the name of the surface data file to be accessed. The input for may also be a file type. The following file types may be input: METAR Surface observations SYNOP Synoptic observations ACFT Aircraft observations SHIP Ship/Buoy observations SHIP6HR 6-hour ship observations SCD Supplemental Climatological Data FFG Flash flood guidance NGMMOS NGMMOS model GFSMOS GFSMOS model GFSXMOS GFSXMOS model When one of these file types is input, the program searches locally for the most recent file first. If no files are found
* [SFFSRC](parameters/sffsrc) is the surface file source. With this parameter, the type of data the can be contained in the file is specified. may be set to either decoded data (including UNKN, AIRW, METR, SHIP, BUOY, and SYNP) or TEXT. If both types are requested, they are separated by a '|'. The decoded file type MUST be specified first, otherwise a default to a text only file will be created.
* [SFOUTF](parameters/sfoutf) is the output surface data file. is used in programs which create a new surface data file. It is also used in programs in which data is moved from an input file to an output file, in which case, SFFILE is the original file. When used with program NAMSND, can be used to specify two output surface files. This is done by appending a + to the output file name. In this case, the second file will have the same name as the first, with the suffix _aux. The second file will contain surface data for the diagnostic or overflow parameters listed in the auxiliary surface packing file (described in SFPRMF). For example, = new.sfc+ will create output files new.sfc and new.sfc_aux, if both a primary and an auxiliary surface packing file have been provided.
* [SFPARM](parameters/sfparm) is a list of surface parameters to be used in a surface program. The four-character parameter names must be separated by semicolons. For example: = TMPF;DWPF;WTHR If a parameter is not present in a data set, the program will attempt to derive it from those parameters which are present. For example, relative humidity can be computed from the temperature and dewpoint temperature. Note that STHA, STHE, and SMXR are computed from PALT. In plotting programs, the position of the parameter determines where it will appear with respect to the station location. The first position is centered on the station. The other positions are shown below:
* [SFPRMF](parameters/sfprmf) specifies the packing information for the surface file to be created. It may be the name of a surface parameter packing file or the information itself entered as follows: =PRM1/MIN1-MAX1-RES1;PRM2/MIN2-MAX2-RES2; ... where each PRMi, MINi, MAXi, and RESi is the parameter name, minimum, maximum and resolution for a parameter to be included in the file. If specifies a file name, then each line of the file must contain the following information separated by blanks or tabs: parameter name CHAR*4 minimum data value REAL maximum data value REAL resolution REAL
* [SGWH](parameters/sgwh) is the ending valid time for the significant wave height data, the height intervals and colors. Skip is a value that indicates how many data points to skip when plotting. Data type | End time | Height intervals | colors | Skip | Time stamp interval | Time stamp color The data type is a selection to plot (Jason-1), A (Altika), C (CryoSat), E (Envisat), G (GFO), or 2 (Jason-2). The ending time is the latest time for which data will be plotted. The ending time is given as a GEMPAK date/time string. Any missing items from the string will be filled in by the system time. The ending time may also be LAST. LAST will use the system time and plot all data for the preceding 4 hours. ALL is not accepted as an ending time for data. The height intervals and colors may each be specified using either a list
* [SHAPE](parameters/shape) is the object that the user wishes to plot on the current graphics device. Valid shapes include: TEXT A string of text. POLYGON An irregular polygon. REGPOLY A regular polygon. ARC An arc connected to the center point (pie). CURVE A smooth curve, or piecewise line. LINE A line segment. ARROW Two types of arrows. COLDFRONT A cold front. WARMFRONT A warm front. OCCLFRONT An occluded front. STATFRONT A stationary front. WEATHER Weather symbols. CLOUD Cloud type symbols. SKY Sky cover symbols. TURB Turbulence symbols.
* [SHIPFL](parameters/shipfl) is a logical variable which indicates whether the surface file contains stations which are not at a fixed location, such as moving ships, aircraft, or floating buoys. A ship file will store and write data differently from a standard GEMPAK surface file. However, these files can be read using the surface library and all programs which access data in surface files can be used unchanged. Note that station information cannot be added to these files, since the station information must be stored with the data.
* [SKIP](parameters/skip) is a variable which determines the contour points or plot points to skip. Input is entered as: skip_contour / skip_plot_x ; skip_plot_y The defaults for skip_contour and skip_plot are 0. Skip_contour thins the input grid before computing the contours to be drawn. Skip_plot_x and _y specify the points at which data is to be displayed. If skip_plot_x is positive and skip_plot_y is not specified, skip_plot_y is set to skip_plot_x. If skip_plot_x is negative, the x plot locations on alternate rows are indented by half the skip_plot_x value. In this case, the absolute value of skip_plot_x must be odd. If not, the absolute value minus 1 is used. If no value for skip_plot_y is specified,
* [SKPMIS](parameters/skpmis) is a logical variable which indicates whether non-reporting stations will be listed. If is YES, nonreporting stations will not be listed. Otherwise, all stations will be listed. In SFMAP, markers can be plotted at nonreporting stations when is NO.
* [SNBUFR](parameters/snbufr) is the name of the BUFR model sounding file to be used as input to create GEMPAK sounding and surface data files using program NAMSND. The first message of the BUFR file must be a table of information about the file contents. If the BUFR sounding file name is followed by |sss=#####, where sss is a 3-character station ID and ##### is the corresponding station number, then an ASCII file named prof.sss is generated. This file will contain only the output for station #####. For example, = eta.T00Z.class1.bufr|pit=72520 creates an ASCII file prof.pit containing sounding data for station 72520. The number of stations and times which may be written to the output files is determined by TIMSTN.
* [SNEFIL](parameters/snefil) is the name of the sounding edit file to be used to update a sounding data file. is a text file which may be created using the program SNLIST with F as an output device. A text editor may be used to create or change the edit file. The parameters to be edited must be specified at the beginning of the edit file. For example: SNPARM = PRES;TMPF;DWPF If the output sounding file exists, the data set parameters must be the same as those listed in the edit file. Station information, such as latitude, longitude, and elevation, cannot be changed with . Use GEMPAK program SNSTNS to update station information in a sounding file.
* [SNFILE](parameters/snfile) is the filename for an upper air data set. The input for may also be a file type. The following file type may be input: UAIR observed upper air When this file type is input, the program searches locally for the most recent file. If no files are found locally, the program searches remotely for the most recent file. The remote directories are specified in the table DATA.TBL. An optional base time may be included with the file type name, following a bar (|). For example: = uair | base time The base time may be any valid format for a GEMPAK date/time.
* [SNOUTF](parameters/snoutf) is the output sounding data file. is used in programs which create a new sounding data file. It is also used in programs in which data is moved from an input file to an output file, in which case SNFILE is the original file.
* [SNPARM](parameters/snparm) is a list of upper air parameters to be used in an upper-air program. The four-character parameter names must be separated by semicolons. For example: = PRES;TMPC;DWPC;THTA If a parameter is not present in a data set, the program will attempt to derive it from those parameters which are present. For example, if pressure, temperature and dewpoint are present in a data set, then relative humidity can be derived. In plotting programs, the position of the parameter determines where it will appear with respect to the station location. The first position is centered on the station. The other positions are shown below:
* [SNPRMF](parameters/snprmf) specifies the packing formation for the sounding file to be created. It may be the name of a sounding parameter packing file or the information itself entered as follows: = PRM1/MIN1-MAX1-RES1;PRM2/MIN2-MAX2-RES2; ... where each PRMi, MINi, MAXi, and RESi is the parameter name, minimum, maximum and resolution for a parameter to be included in the file. If specifies a file name, then each line of the file must contain the following information separated by blanks or tabs: parameter name CHAR*4 minimum data value REAL maximum data value REAL resolution REAL The resolution should be an integral power of 10; otherwise the next
* [SOURCE](parameters/source) indicates whether the data used to compute the average station spacing are to be read from a surface or sounding file. Use SF to read from a surface file and SN to read from a sounding file.
* [SPLINE](parameters/spline) is a logical for using splines to interpolate the data to height levels. Valid input are YES and NO. If NO is selected for , linear interpolation, with respect to log pressure, is used.
* [SQUALL](parameters/squall) is the length of the squall line used for the air and moisture flux calculations.The default value is 20000 m. The coordinate rotation is implied in the calculation of the fluxes, since only the V component of the wind is used in the equations. Therefore, ROTATE should be set such that the long axis of the sqall line is along X-axis.
* [STARTL](parameters/startl) is the level in the input data file at which to begin the search for the output vertical level in gdpvsf. must be a specific grid level in the input data file. The search may proceed upward or downward, depending on the relative locations of and STOPL.
* [STAT](parameters/stat) is the issuing status of the GFA freezing levels. The valid values are: NRML normal COR correction AMD amended The default value is NRML.
* [STATION](parameters/station) is the station to use in SFGRAM. Either a station character identifier or station number may be entered. If a single station is entered, all traces will use data from that station. If a list of stations is entered, trace 1 will be for station 1, trace 2 for station 2, ... Stations in the list must be separated using semicolons.
* [STNCOL](parameters/stncol) specifies the color for the station identifier, time and the parameters specified in STNDEX. These parameters are written at the top of the plot.
* [STNDEX](parameters/stndex) is the list of stability indices or station parameters for upper-air data. The items in the list must be separated using semicolons. The depth for the layer averages may be specified preceded by a ! in the user input. For example, BRCH!1000!8000 instructs the program to average over a mixed layer 1000 meters deep and lower tropospheric layer 8000 meters deep. Similarly MLTH!750 results in an average potential temperature over a mixed layer 750 meters deep while the default is 500 meters. The following is a list of valid names: SHOW Showalter index LIFT Lifted index LFTV LIFT computed by using virtual temperature SWET SWEAT index KINX K index CTOT Cross totals index VTOT Vertical totals index
* [STNFIL](parameters/stnfil) is the name of a file which contains station information which includes the character identifier, number, name, state, country, latitude, longitude and elevation for each station. All this information, except the station name, is stored as station header information in surface and sounding data files. The file SFSTNS.TBL is a surface station table. SNSTNS.TBL is an upper-air table. Information in the files must be stored using the exact format used in current tables, since they are read with a FORTRAN FORMAT statement. They may be changed using a text editor. WARNING: The variable is used for both surface and upper-air programs. Care should be taken that the correct file is specified.
* [STNPLT](parameters/stnplt) allows the user to plot station markers and station information. text color / text attributes | marker attributes | stnfile # column Text color is the color of the station information. If the text color is set to 0, no station information will be plotted. Text attributes are text size, font, width, border, rotation, justification, and hw flag. Marker attributes are color, type, size, width, and hw flag. If the marker color is 0, no markers will be drawn and the station information will be centered on the station. If the marker color is not specified, a default of 1 will be used. Stnfile is the station table from which the station information is read. Column refers to the station table and is the column number from which to get the information to display. The following shows the columns for a station table:
* [STNTYP](parameters/stntyp) is used to select the data reporting characteristic of a station. Stations will only be listed if they meet the selected characterstic(s). The valid types are as follows: A = list all stations R = list reporting stations M = list missing stations U = list stations not in station table L = list stations in station table The characteristics may be combined. For example, = ML will list missing stations that are in the station table. It is necessary to set AREA = DSET in order to view any unlisted stations.
* [STOPL](parameters/stopl) is the level in the input data file at which to end the search for the output vertical level in gdpvsf. must be a specific grid level in the input data file. The search may proceed upward or downward, depending on the relative locations of STARTL and . If the desired level in the new vertical coordinate is not encountered in a particular grid column between STARTL and , the value of all interpolated fields in the output file will be set to missing at that grid point.
* [STREAM](parameters/stream) lines/arrows/stop/slow/scale The parameter controls several parameters dealing with the overall streamline calculation and display. "Lines" is a real number multiplier which controls the number (density) of streamlines drawn (default 1.0); "arrows" is a real number multiplier which controls the number of arrowheads displayed (default 1.5*lines); "stop" is a real number multiplier which controls how close a streamline comes to another streamline before drawing is discontinued (default 0.5); "slow" is a real number multiplier which controls the minimum vector speed threshold for stopping a streamline (default 0.67); "scale" is a real number multiplier which controls how much the input vector field is scaled prior to streamline calculation (default 0.33).
* [STRMID](parameters/strmid) specifies the storm identifier used by programs GPTPC, and GPTCWW: Storm id/adv num/device/num fcst days/text/track/sz1;sz2/ lt1;lt2/lw1;lw2/clr1;clr2/disclaimer The storm id is the six or eight character storm identifier given for each particular storm, for example, AL0300 or EP072001. The inclusion of the 2-digit century is optional. The adv num is the number of the advisory that the user wishes to see displayed. Both the storm id and the adv num must be specified in order to view a particular storm. If either or both of these fields are blank, the program will get the storm(s) to be displayed by comparing the contents of the storm history file to the files in the storm advisory directory. Each storm id and advisory number in the history file is checked against the storms in the directory. If a storm advisory is found in the
* [SVRL](parameters/svrl) is the ending valid time for the SLS watches, the colors for the severe thunderstorm and tornado (SLS) watches, a flag for plotting the start and stop times, a flag for plotting the county names for the watches on the map, and a flag to outline the county. End time| colors|Time flag|Label flag|Outline flag|Color code SLS watches that are valid at the ending time will be plotted on the map. The ending time is given as a GEMPAK date/time string. Any missing items from the string will be filled in by the system time. The ending time may also be LAST and ALL. LAST will use the system time and plot all current SLS watches. ALL will plot all the watches in the data files, whether they are active, cancelled or expired. The colors are separated by a semi-colon. If any color is set to 0, that type of symbol will not be plotted. If any color is missing, a default will be used. Defaults are cyan for thunderstorm and red for
* [SYSTEM](parameters/system) is the system (storm) speed (m/s) and direction separated by a "/". These are used to compute the winds relative to the system.
* [TAG](parameters/tag) is used to identify a group of GFA FZLVL elements. FZLVLs with the same tags can be smeared together. The value of can be 1W, 2W, ..., 9W, 1C, 2C, ..., 9C, 1E, 2E, ..., 9E. The default value is 1W.
* [TAXIS](parameters/taxis) contains the range, increment and location for labels on a time axis input as: start-stop-inc;lb;gl;tm START and STOP are GEMPAK date/times which may be abbreviated. If the values are omitted, the data range will be used. The time axis will be reversed if the specification begins with R or if the times are input with a later time first. INC is the time increment in hours and minutes. The form for INC is HHHMM. If one or two digits are entered, hours will be assumed. If INC is omitted, a default appropriate for the range will be used. If the time range exceeds 720 days, the increment is ignored, and an appropriate labelling interval is selected automatically. LB, GL, and TM are the frequencies for labels, grid lines, and tick marks.
* [TCMG](parameters/tcmg) is the ending valid time for the tropical disturbance, the colors for the disturbance symbol, the arrows, and the storm danger area, and the name of the center issuing the graphic. End time|SY;AR;DA colors|center name Tropical disturbances that are valid at the ending time will be plotted on the map. The ending time is given as a GEMPAK date/time string. Any missing items from the string will be filled in by the system time. The ending time may also be LAST. LAST will use the system time and plot all current tropical disturbances. ALL is not valid for . The colors are separated by a semi-colon. If any color is set to 0, the color will not be changed. If any color is missing, a default will be used. Defaults are red for the tropical disturbance symbols, orange for the track arrows, and magenta, yellow, green, purple, cyan, blue, coral, pink, dark green and dark orange for the danger areas for tropical systems 1 through 10, respectively, in either the Atlantic or Pacific.
* [TEXT](parameters/text) is the size, font, text width and hardware/software flag for graphics text separated with slashes: text size / font / width / border / rotation / justification / hw flag The size may be a real number multiplier for the default text size. If the size is zero or unspecified, the current size will be used. The size may also be a name, or the first character of a name. The name is converted to a real number multiplier. For hardware text, the named sizes correspond to discrete point sizes. Sizes other than the named sizes will be rounded to the nearest point size. Any size may be given for software text. The standard names and size values are given in the table FONTSZ.TBL: Name Size HW Point
* [THTALN](parameters/thtaln) specifies the color, line type, line width, minimum, maximum, and increment for the background dry adiabats (potential temperature lines) on thermodynamic diagrams: line color / line type / width / minimun / maximum / increment The values should be separated by slashes. If is blank, no lines will be drawn.
* [THTELN](parameters/thteln) specifies the color, line type, line width, minimum, maximum, and increment for the background moist adiabats (equivalent potential temperature lines) on thermodynamic diagrams: line color / line type / width / minimun / maximum / increment The values must be separated by slashes. If is blank, no lines will be drawn.
* [TILT](parameters/tilt) is the Radar beam elevation/tilt angle. The tilt angle can be a real number. The sweep with the closest mean elevation angle will be used.
* [TIMSTN](parameters/timstn) contains the maximum number of times to include in a file and the number of stations to be included in addition to the stations in STNFIL.
* [TITLE](parameters/title) is the title color, title line, and title string separated by slashes: title color / title line location / title string | short title If the title color is 0, a title is not plotted. The title line specifies the line on which the title will be written. The value of the title line has the following meanings: 0 bottom line -n n lines from bottom +n n lines from top If the line is not specified, the default is program dependent. The title string is the title to be written. If no title string is specified, a default title will be determined by the program.
* [TOPOFL](parameters/topofl) is topographic input file. A topography file is 2 byte little endian (LSB) raster of elevation data prepended by an 80 byte header that describes the navigation bounds. can be either a file name, or a known abbreviation (current abbreviations are DEM30 and DEM5 as described below). If is DEM30, the source terrain file is the 30 second topographic data set obtained from NGDC's GLOBE data set: http://www.ngdc.noaa.gov/seg/topo/globe.shtml Note that this data set does not contain bathymetry. Sea floor is set to constant -500m. If is DEM5, the source file is the 5 minute topographic and bathymetric data set from NGDC's ETOP terrainbase set: http://www.ngdc.noaa.gov/seg/fliers/se-1104.shtml Topography files can be obtained from:
* [TRACE](parameters/trace) parameters contain specifications for each trace on the meteogram in the following format: parameters/colors/range/witnes!parameters/colors/range/witnes The parameters before the ! will be plotted on the left of the plot; those after the ! will be plotted on the right. The parameters may be any GEMPAK surface parameter. Real-valued parameters will be drawn as a graph. Character valued parameters will be rotated 90 degrees and written on the plot. Symbol parameters will be drawn as symbols. For GUST and GUMS, the character G will be plotted. Up to four parameters may be plotted along each axis. The parameters must be separated using semicolons. Character and weather symbol data may only be plotted in positions 1, 2 or 3. Each parameter name may be followed by a colon, the size or line type,
* [TRACE1](parameters/trace1)
* [TRACE2](parameters/trace2)
* [TRACE3](parameters/trace3)
* [TRACE4](parameters/trace4)
* [TRACE5](parameters/trace5)
* [TRAK](parameters/trak) is the ending time for the Altimetric Satellite Ground Track Prediction data, and the color of the prediction. Skip is a value that indicates how many data points to skip when plotting. Data type | End time | Color | Skip The data type is a selection to plot. Currently there are five data types, 1 (Jason-1), 2 (Jason-2), E (Envisat), S (Saral/Altika), and C (Cryosat). The ending time is the latest time for which prediction data will be plotted. The ending time is given as a GEMPAK date/time string. Any missing items from the string will be filled in by the system time. The ending time may also be LAST. LAST will use the system time and plot all data for the preceding 6 hours. ALL is not accepted as an ending time for data. The Color may each be specified using a GEMPAK color in the range of
* [TROPHT](parameters/tropht) is the user estimated tropopause height in meters. The default value is 10000 m.
* [TRPINT](parameters/trpint) is the user chosen distance above (and below) the tropopause which is used for layer calculations. The default value is 1000 m.
* [TSTEP](parameters/tstep) specifies the time step, in minutes, for the calculation of updated position of the parcel within the grid domain.
* [TVS](parameters/tvs) specifies the plot symbol and filter attributes for tornado vortex signatures: color / marker / size / width / hw ; filter A color value of 0 is used to turn off plotting FILTER is a logical variable or real number which controls the filtering of data in order to eliminate plotting of overlapping data.
* [TXTCOL](parameters/txtcol) specifies the color number for text, NOAA or NWS logo. See COLORS.
* [TXTFIL](parameters/txtfil) specifies an ASCII text file to be read and displayed to the the current device driver. If the input file is LOGO, the NOAA logo is plotted. To specify plotting of the NOAA LOGO enter: LOGO | size | mode or NOAA | size | mode The NWS logo can be plotted by entering: NWS | size | mode The size is a real number that specifies the size of the logo. The default size is 1.
* [TXTLOC](parameters/txtloc) specifies the start location for plotting the contents of an ASCII text file specified by TXTFIL. The X and Y coordinates are separated by a semi-colon: x ; y The X and Y are given in normalized-type coordinates for the given panel. They range from 0.0 to 1.0 in each dimension. The origin is at the lower left corner of the panel. For example, = .25 ; 1 The values are treated as a percentage of the panel size in each dimension. Therefore, in this example, the text starts at a point 25% of the X direction panel size and at the top of the panel in the Y direction. can also specify the location in map coordinates. The
* [TXTYPE](parameters/txtype) specifies the text attributes. See TEXT.
* [TYPE](parameters/type) specifies the processing type for the GDPLOT2 GDPFUN parameter. The list does not need separators, however slashes could be used for clarity: type 1 / type 2 / ... / type n Valid inputs for type are: SCALAR s: C the original GEMPAK contouring algorithm F contour fill algorithm X box algorithm -- same as contour fill, but draws lines around the polygons rather than filling in polygons. P plot grid point values D plot scaler as a directional arrow VECTOR s: A wind arrows
* [UKAFIL](parameters/ukafil) is the intermediate input/output ASCII file, e.g., SIGWXHI.txt.
* [VCOORD](parameters/vcoord) specifies the vertical coordinate system of the levels to process. Currently, there are four coordinates: NONE = surface data only PRES = pressure THTA = theta (isentropic) HGHT = height A list or range of levels will be based on the vertical coordinate type, with the exception of MAN or VAS which always refer to a pressure coordinate system. Note that data are ignored within superadiabatic layers found working upwards from the surface when interpolations are performed to isentropic coordinates.
* [VERCEN](parameters/vercen) allows the GDGRIB user to specify the contents of bytes 4, 5, 6, and 26 of the GRIB PDS. The input is given as follows: byte_4/byte_5/byte_6/byte_26 Values may be omitted in specifying . For example, to omit the first and third values, specifying only the second and fourth, enter the following: /byte_5//byte_26 If values are omitted, the following defaults are inserted: BYTE Default value Meaning 4 2 Parameter Table Version # 5 7 CENTER # (7->NCEP)
* [VGFILE](parameters/vgfile) is the name of the Vector Graphics File (VGF) to be displayed or processed. It also specifies the name of the scale file, attribute file and time filter. The scale file and attribute file are used by GPMAP to alter objects in the VGF when displayed or stored in the output device, e.g., XW, FAX, GIF, etc. These files allow the VGF object attributes to be tailored to meet the display requirements of FAX, GIF, and other supported product formats. The scale, attribute file names and filter are specified using the "|" character as a delimiter in the following format: vgfile | scale file | attribute file | filter Specifying the scale file allows a limited set of object attributes in the VGF to be changed in the output device by multiplying their values by numbers defined in the scale file. The following parameters can be scaled: Parameter Name Description
* [WARN](parameters/warn) is the ending valid time for the warnings, the colors for the severe thunderstorm, tornado and flash flood warnings, a flag for plotting the start and stop times, a flag for plotting the county names for the warning on the map, a flag to outline the county, and a flag to plot warning polygon. End time|T-storm color;Tornado color;Flash flood color|Time flag| Label flag|Outline flag|Poly flag Warnings that are valid at the ending time will be plotted on the map. The ending time is given as a GEMPAK date/time string. Any missing items from the string will be filled in by the system time. The ending time may also be LAST and ALL. LAST will use the system time and plot all current warnings. ALL will plot all the warnings in the data files, whether they are active, cancelled or expired. The colors are separated by a semi-colon. If any color is set to 0, that type of symbol will not be plotted. If any color is missing, a
* [WATCH](parameters/watch) is the ending valid time for the watches, the colors for the severe thunderstorm and tornado watches and a flag for plotting the start and stop times for the watch on the map. End time|Watch colors|Watch box time flag;Status line time flag |Watch box number flag;Status line number flag|Color code |Most recent status line flag Watches that are valid at the ending time will be plotted on the map. The ending time is given as a GEMPAK date/time string. Any missing items from the string will be filled in by the system time. The ending time may also be LAST and ALL. LAST will use the system time and plot all current watches. ALL will plot all the watches in the data files, whether they are active, cancelled or expired. If a status message was issued for the watch, a line will be plotted dividing the expired portion of the watch from the active portion.
* [WAVLEN](parameters/wavlen) is the wavelength for the gravity or lee wave in kilometers. If no wavelength is required, use 99999.
* [WAVSPD](parameters/wavspd) is the wave speed in m/s. This is used for calculating the SCORER parameter.
* [WCN](parameters/wcn) is the ending valid time for the watch county notification(), the colors for the county bounds, a flag for plotting the start and stop times, a flag for plotting the county names for the on the map, a flag to outline the county or union, a flag to fill the county or union, and a union flag. End time | Marker and outline colors | Time flag | Label flag | Watch number | Color code flag | Marker flag | Outline flag | Fill flag / fill colors | Union flag s that are valid at the ending time will be plotted on the map. The ending time is given as a GEMPAK date/time string. Any missing items from the string will be filled in by the system time. The ending time may also be LAST and ALL. LAST will use the system time and plot all current s. ALL will plot all the in the data files, whether they are active, cancelled or expired. The colors are separated by a semi-colon. If any color is set to 0,
* [WCP](parameters/wcp) is the ending valid time for the watches, the colors for the severe thunderstorm and tornado watches and flags for plotting the start and stop times and watch numbers for the watches on the map. End time|Watch colors|Time flag|Watch number flag |Color code flag Watches that are valid at the ending time will be plotted on the map. The ending time is given as a GEMPAK date/time string. Any missing items from the string will be filled in by the system time. The ending time may also be LAST and ALL. LAST will use the system time and plot all current watches. ALL will plot all the watches in the data files, whether they are active, cancelled or expired. The colors are separated by a semi-colon. If any color is set to 0, that type of line will not be plotted. If any color is missing, a default will be used. Defaults are cyan for thunderstorm and red
* [WEIGHT](parameters/weight) is the Barnes weighting parameter. Typical values are between 20 and 50. A value of 20 is the default.
* [WIND](parameters/wind) specifies the wind symbol, size, width, type, and head size separated by slashes: wind symbol / size / width / type / arrow head size The wind symbol contains a letter for symbol type, a letter for symbol units and a color number with no separators. The character meanings are: TYPE: B = BARB A = ARROW D = DIRECTIONAL ARROW UNITS: K = KNOTS M = m/s COLOR: Color number 0 = no wind plotted The default is BM1, i.e., barbs in meters/sec plotted in color number 1. If a partial specification is given, the remaining characteristics will be taken from the default.
* [WINPOS](parameters/winpos) specifies the position for plotting winds for vertical profile plots. Up to three separate wind profiles may be plotted. The stability indices will also be positioned at the top of the plot according to . Position 1 is the leftmost position. The value of will be incremented modulo 3 until the screen is cleared or the program is run again.
* [WMOHDR](parameters/wmohdr) allows specification of a WMO header for a GRIB message. WMO_ID / Origin_ID / DDHHMM The first six bytes of the header (WMO_ID) must be given. The four-character originating center identifier (Origin_ID) defaults to KWBC. The six-character reference day, hour, and minute (DDHHMM) defaults to values from the reference time in the GRIB1 PDS (bytes 15, 16, and 17, respectively), or Grib 2 IDS (bytes 16, 17, nd 18). Bytes 7 and 12 of the WMO header are always blank. Only the 21-byte version of the WMO header is generated.
* [WOU](parameters/wou) is the ending valid time for the watch outline update (), the colors for the county bounds, a flag for plotting the start and stop times, a flag for plotting the county names for the on the map, a flag to outline the county or union, a flag to fill the county or union, and a union flag. End time | Marker and outline colors | Time flag | Label flag | Watch number | Color code flag | Marker flag | Outline flag | Fill flag / fill colors | Union flag s that are valid at the ending time will be plotted on the map. The ending time is given as a GEMPAK date/time string. Any missing items from the string will be filled in by the system time. The ending time may also be LAST and ALL. LAST will use the system time and plot all current s. ALL will plot all the in the data files, whether they are active, cancelled or expired. The colors are separated by a semi-colon. If any color is set to 0,
* [WSAT](parameters/wsat) is the ending valid time for the WindSAT wind data, the speed intervals and colors, the wind barb size and width and plotting flags. Skip is a value that indicates how many rows and data points to skip when plotting. The flag being used is the Rain flag. Data type | End time | Speed intervals | colors1 | colors2 | Arrow/Barb shaft size;Arrow/Barb width;Arrow head size; Type of wind vector | Skip | Time stamp interval | Time stamp color | Line Width | Rain | Rain Colors | Plot Circles The data type is a selection to plot. Currently there is only one data type, . The ending time is the latest time for which WindSAT data will be plotted. The ending time is given as a GEMPAK date/time string. Any missing items from the string will be filled in by the system time. The ending time may also be LAST. LAST will use the system time and plot all WindSAT data for the preceding 4 hours. ALL is not accepted as an ending
* [WSPDA](parameters/wspda) is the ending valid time for the Altika wind speed data, the speed intervals and colors, and time stamp intervals and colors. Skip is a value that indicates how many rows and data points to skip when plotting. Data type | End time | Speed intervals | Speed colors | Skip | Time stamp interval | Time stamp color | The data type is a selection to plot. Currently there is only one data type, . The ending time is the latest time for which Altika wind speed data will be plotted. The ending time is given as a GEMPAK date/time string. Any missing items from the string will be filled in by the system time. The ending time may also be LAST. LAST will use the system time and plot all data for the preceding 4 hours. ALL is not accepted as an ending time for WPSDA data.
* [WSPDALT](parameters/wspdalt) is the ending valid time for the altimeter-derived wind speed data, the speed intervals and colors, and time stamp intervals and colors. Skip is a value that indicates how many rows and data points to skip when plotting. Data type | End time | Speed intervals | Speed colors | Skip | Time stamp interval | Time stamp color | The data type is a selection to plot. Currently there are three data types, WSPDA (Altika), WSPDC (Cryosat), and WSPD2 (Jason-2). The ending time is the latest time for which the wind speed data will be plotted. The ending time is given as a GEMPAK date/time string. Any missing items from the string will be filled in by the system time. The ending time may also be LAST. LAST will use the system time and plot all data for the preceding 4 hours. ALL is not accepted as an ending time for WPSDALT data.
* [WSTM](parameters/wstm) defines attributes for rendering winter storm warnings, watches and advisories.
 
* [XAXIS](parameters/xaxis) contains the left bound, right bound, label increment, and frequency information.

* [YAXIS](parameters/yaxis) contains the lower bound, upper bound, label increment, and frequency information.
